Add EIP: Tranche Sequence (#7169)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-7169.md

---
eip: 7169
title: Tranche Sequence
description: A tranche sequence refers to a series of payment opportunities that occur at specified time intervals.
author: Anwar Alruwaili (@pcanwar) <ipcanw@gmail.com>, Shaun Cole (@secole1), Michelle Conroy (@missmshel)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/library-for-time-management-on-chain-tranche-sequence/14571
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2020-05-15
---

## Abstract

This concept is extended through a library that builds on [ERC-20](./eip-20.md), [ERC-721](./eip-721.md), and other standards, offering a transparent and structured approach to on-chain time management. With the help of additional functions, the library enables stakeholders to define time milestones and a sequence of opportunities to evaluate and decide on the next steps.

## Motivation

> The motivation behind this library is to overcome the challenges of managing multi-stage projects or use cases on utility tokens or NFTs while providing a fair and transparent approach to on-chain time management. This structured approach facilitates effective smart contract management and enables stakeholders to progress and make informed decisions. The library can be applied to various use cases, such as salary negotiations, project funding, or resource allocation, promoting trust and collaboration among stakeholders. The library's flexibility and transparency can result in a fairer and more effective decision-making process for all parties involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The motivation behind this proposal is to overcome the challenges of managing multi-stage projects or use cases on utility tokens or NFTs while providing a fair and transparent approach to on-chain time management. This structured approach facilitates effective smart contract management and enables stakeholders to progress and make informed decisions. This proposal can be applied to various use cases, such as salary negotiations, project funding, or resource allocation, promoting trust and collaboration among stakeholders. Its flexibility and transparency can result in a fairer and more effective decision-making process for all parties involved.
```

> The following properties make tranche sequences an effective tool for managing multi-stage use cases and projects on utility tokens or NFTs in a structured and transparent manner:
> 

Reviewer: Can uncomment this when ready

```suggestion
<!-- The following properties make tranche sequences an effective tool for managing multi-stage use cases and projects on utility tokens or NFTs in a structured and transparent manner: -->

```

## Specification

> Library

Reviewer: This section needs to be better organized. I recommend using a single code block for the interface, followed by sections describing each function in detail. For example:

````markdown
## Specification

```solidity
interface Tranche {
    function initialize(uint256[] memory sequence) public;
}
```

### Functions

#### `initialize`

The initialize function floops the flob.

### Events

...
````

Milestone Tracking: The library provides utilities to track milestones and understand their progress. You can get the number of completed and missed milestones, check if the current timestamp is within a milestone, and even forcibly advance to the next milestone.

Timestamp Reporting: The library provides utilities for reporting missed timestamps, getting the start and end times of the current milestone, and listing all missing timestamps since the last completed milestone.

Force Increase of Milestones: If needed, milestones can be forcibly advanced manually, regardless of whether they're currently extendable.

Start Time Customization: The library allows the initialization of milestones with a custom start time instead of the current block timestamp, which can be helpful for specific project timelines.

Effective Milestone Management: Functions such as resetMileStone, isCurrentMilestone, isMilestoneStarted, and isMilestoneExpired provide the ability to effectively manage milestones, including initiating, resetting, tracking, and identifying the completion of a milestone.

> Precision and Accuracy: The library uses block.timestamp for timekeeping, which ensures precise and accurate timestamps for all operations. This accuracy is essential for a fair and accurate representation of project progress.

Reviewer: EIPs don't usually contain lists of features. Instead, you should convert these into requirements (eg. "The contract MUST ...", or "Implementations SHOULD ...") or explanations in your rationale.

## Rationale

> This library is intended to provide a standardized and efficient way to manage time-based milestones in smart contracts, enabling developers to easily integrate this functionality into a variety of applications.

Reviewer: This first line of your rationale should be moved to the motivation section. The rationale section should describe technical decisions made _within_ the EIP itself, while the motivation section justifies the EIP as a whole.

> Update, getter, initialization, modification, query, and helper functions provide a set of tools for managing time based milestones and offer the ability to create, manage, update, and query milestones flexibly and efficiently.

Reviewer: This is a truth, but it doesn't really offer much in the way of explanation. Please expand it or reword it so that it answers a "why" question.

> The library provides replay protection and ensures security by enforcing time boundaries for each milestone and providing the ability to extend time sequences if necessary.

Reviewer: Again, this is true, but it doesn't explain _why_ it is necessary to provide replay protection.

## Backwards Compatibility

No backward compatibility issues found. Thus, the library is designed with high compatibility while aligning with existing contracts' structures and logic, so its design allows for usage in diverse contexts.

## Test Cases

> The test cases presented in the src directory.

Reviewer: You can link to any file in the `/assets/eip-7169/` directory (but not the whole directory.) It's pretty common to include a `README.md` file, and link to that from the EIP.
